From: VladimirLyakhovsky <Vladimir.Lyakhovsky@pobox.spbu.ru>
Subject: Re: [(nowhere)] arXiv endorsement request from Anton Nazarov
To: Anton Nazarov <antonnaz@gmail.com>
Date: Mon, 11 May 2009 13:28:17 +0400
Organization: SPbGU
Reply-To: VladimirLyakhovsky <Vladimir.Lyakhovsky@pobox.spbu.ru>

Dear Anton!

This is the first time that I am in contact with an endorsement
procedure in arXiv. When we sent our first papers there nobody
asked us for a recommendation.

From my point of view anybody can try to publish a paper based
on the other published papers.
But if my opinion is to be considered I shall formulate it.

Your paper is not prepared properly yet.

First of all (as you have noticed yourself) you have just corrected a
serious  mistake there. What this must mean? This means that the algorithm
must be carefully tested again in order to avoid possible confusions.

Secondly the text is very poorly composed. It seems that you were in a
great hurry when writing it.
You can very simply spoil your reputation in the arXiv. 

Not to be just declarative below I supply you with some notes (not all!)
that justify my opinion. 

1.In the Introduction we find no justification of the problem to be solved.
Why other algorithms are not good enough?

2."There are several recursive algorithms for computation of weight
multiplicities which are based on different recurrent relations between
weight multiplicities."
What are they? Where are the references?
Well they are found in the next paragraph:
"Algorithms, based on Freudenthal formula (1) are implemented in several
software packages, such as Coxeter/Weyl [5], LiE [6], LambdaTensor [7]."
And what? Are they bad? 

3. in  (2) => \gamma_0 , s(\gamma_0) and \pi are not explained.

4."Weyl group of affine Lie algebra is richer than that of simple finite-
dimensional Lie algebra. It can be presented as  a semi-direct product
of the finite
Weyl group W0 of the simple Lie algebra g0 \in g with infinite abelian
group trans-
lations along the roots of g0 which are non-imaginary roots of g:
W = W0 \timesT."
 - this is an example of a vulgarization of the notion because almost
 every assertion
here can be disputed.

5."The Weyl group orbit of the highest root bounds the weights …"
-- the orbit is the set of vectors, and how the bounds are imposed
by the set of vectors?

6."Rich Weyl symmetry" - what is the mathematical meaning of "rich"
here?

7."It can be shown that it is enough to compute multiplicities of
the weights
of the form \lambda=(\lambda^0,k,n) where \lambda^0 is finite part,
k - level of the representation and n - grade only for finite number
of \lambda lying in the intersection of main Weyl chamber with the
subspace of grade zero." 
-- this phrase cannot be understand, the confusing assertions are
mixed here with plenty of misprints.

8.Then comes 
"So all the required information can be encoded in the form of string
functions" - what does that "so" mean?

9."but our implementation is rather inefficient" - a very strange note,
if you have invented an inefficient algorithm then what reasons force
you to publish it?!

10."we haven't done any practical speed comparisons yet" - usually
the answer is - these are your problems!

11."Branching coeffcients can be computed in  a similar way"
- similar to what?

12. P_a - is not defined.

13. The meaning of \gamma_0 remains unknown.

14. "… which are equal to usual branching cofficients for weights
from the main Weyl chamber" - here is the typical example of a
confusing assertion - what main Weyl chamber do you mean?
There are two such here!

15. "… the theory of affine
Lie algebras is based upon the theory of simple finite-dimensional
Lie algebras" - again the ambiguous assertion. Strictly speaking
this is not true.

16. "This design choice imposed some performance constraints but
allowed us
to keep the code concise by the lack of need of reimplementation
of algorithms
for computation of roots, weights and finite Weyl reflection."
- completely unreadable text - "…of…of…of…for…of…"

17. "… for explicit construction of irreducible highest-weight
modules." - not all of them!

18. \alpha_1 + \alpha_2 + \alpha_3  -- is not the highest weight
of your module considered below!

19. "String function coefficients are equal to" - in the text
them come not the coefficients.

20. (sl3 for complex algebras and su3 for real) - again the
confusing assertion, does it mean that only one real form can
be studied?

21. "This implementation is work in progress. … Further study
is required for better performance of implementation."
-       despite the poor grammar this means that the proposed
material is an unfinished study. Then they will tell you to
finish it first!

22. "Although big performance gain can be achieved…"
 - completely unclear!

23. I have indicated some absent articles in your text, but
it must be checked scrupulously by a good spell-check.

I hope you'll perform the necessary tests, complete this work and
prepare a text that will not do any harm to you future reputation
as a specialist.

Yours
           Vladimir Lyakhovsky


